Hello everyone and welcome to natural language processing with our heart too.
In the first part of this video lecture series we went ahead and installed all the packages we needed
.
Then we set up our Twitter account and we also set up our application developer Twitter account.
Also we got our consumer key or consumer secret key in our access token and our secret access token
codes you'll need this code for all four of these codes to continue on part two in order to connect
to Twitter through our let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
OK here we are our studio our first step in creating the word cloud or data mining Twitter first some
text data is to actually import all the libraries we're going to be using.
We're going to first off use the Twitter library then we'll need to call library again on T.M. which
will allow us to actually work with the text data and manipulate it.
Then the next library are going to need is the word cloud library.
And then finally we'll also need the our color library which will allow us to easily color that word
cloud.
Next we want to actually connect to Twitter in order to do this.
You're going to call the following function set up underscore Twitter underscore.
And this basically allows you to set up your authorization to Twitter to do this you'll need a pass in
your consumer key.
I already saved this as the key your consumer secret key aready say as Eski then you'll need your access
token already say this as token and then you'll need your secret token again just to clarify these are
variables.
But before actually started recording this video I said each of these variables as a string containing
the long series of characters and numbers from part 1 of this lecture series.
So go ahead and put in your secret key or consumer key and then your token and your secret token once
you've connected to Twitter what you should be able to do is search Twitter.
Let's go ahead and search for the term Soccer and grab a bunch of tweets that have the word soccer in
them.
I can use the search Twitter function from the Twitter library.
I put in the term that I want to search for.
I'm going to go ahead and search for soccer.
I'm going to go ahead and grab one thousand tweets and I want to grab them in the English language which
I can say by the end and there's a bunch of other really cool stuff you can do of search Twitter.
Go ahead and say Help search Twitter in case you want to pass and more parameters.
You can do things like geographical location latitude and longitude.
Set a radius from allotted and longitude to only see geographical regions.
So other languages are set dates if you want to.
There's a lot of options there.
So go ahead and play around them.
Right now we're basically just asking for the most recent 1000 tweets that had soccer in them.
There were also in English then we we're going to do is go ahead and get the text out of those tweets
.
This is going to return some tweet data and we want the text from that data and want to make a new variable
called Soccer text and I'm going to call as supply person my soccer tweets which is essentially a list
of this tweet or object and I can do something a little special of this object which is just grab the
get text method off of it.
So this is returning tweets and this is grabbing text data from tweets and we're using basically a quick
anonymous function to do this easily.
Once we have the text data we want to do is clean the text data
in this step we're going to remove emoticons and then create a corpus and going to go ahead and call
soccor text again
and and then don't call the I see on a V function which is basically an encoding function.
If you're not super familiar with text encodings such as UTF 8 basically or are going to be doing is
making sure to remove emoticons and characters that are not in UTF 8.
That way we don't have errors if there's weird symbols or accent marks over the ears etc..
I'm going to go ahead and pass in soccer text pasan UTF dash 8 as one in including calls and then S
C I and this will essentially just remove the emoticons and any other data that we can't really work
with as far as text data
then I'm going to create a soccer corpus
and this is all using the T.M. library.
We're going to call corpus and then vector source which just creates a vector source from the text data
.
All right we have our sacred text and we have our soccor corpus.
Next we're going to do is create a document term matrix
and you can go ahead and reference the notes in case you want more details about these functions.
Or just call help on these functions themselves.
Let's go ahead and apply some transformations using the term document matrix function.
I'm going to create an object called term dot matrix
and the function I'm going to call is a term document matrix.
I pass in my corpus
and then I'm going to pass in an argument control and control is going to take a list and it is essentially
going to be a list of actions to do on every document in that corpus.
First thing to do is remove punctuation
and I'm going to set that equal to true.
It's basically saying yes remove punctuation.
And then I'm going to put in stop words stop words are just really common words that you're going to
have to remove words such as the.
Or he or she.
Those are words that don't add too much information.
We're going to go ahead and remove them.
That means we're going to pass in a vector of words we want to remove one of the words I want our move
is soccer because if I just ask for soccer my word cloud is going to have a huge soccer word in it.
I want the words that are associated with soccer.
We can go ahead and remove that.
And then I can also use the Stoppard's function itself and pass an English to remove common English
Stop words.
And then I want to also remove numbers so that equal to true.
And then I also want to lower everything.
So say two lower equals.
True.
All right.
Let me break this down over time as to what actually is happening here.
We're taking advantage of this library that T.M. library which is made for a text manipulation or creating
a term Dockett matrix or a document matrix with the term document matrix function.
We pass in the corpus we made it which we're able to do if corpus and vector source off of that Texada
and then we pass in this control parameter which is just a list of operations we want to do.
We're going to remove the punctuation remove any stop words.
In this case soccer is included along with the normal English Stoppard's.
We're going to remove numbers and then we're going to say two lower equals true and all of these calls
are just functions that are included in the T.M. library.
Let's go ahead and move along.
We're going to convert the object into a matrix.
And what I mean by that is this term dot dot matrix doesn't actually come back as a matrix in R.
So we're going to go ahead and do is say as Matrix and pass it in.
Then what we want to do is get the word counts
in order to get information into our word cloud function.
I'm going to set up a variable called word frequency or word freak and I'm going to sorts row sums of
the term doc matrix and we'll go ahead and say decreasing equals true or capital-T which as we know
is the same thing.
And then I'm going to call it data frame and say the column word is equal to the names of word frequency
and the frequency or the freq column of r e q is just equal to word frequency.
And basically what is doing is creating a data frame with all the words and their counts.
And then after that they can finally create the word cloud and hopefully it turns up well.
So it is a little hard to tell if you're going to get a good result here because this is just getting
Twitter live but hopefully it works out for us.
We'll go ahead and pasand the word column in the frequency column that we just created and we'll specify
that random order is equal to false
it let's go ahead and say colors equals better pal.
And this is from the color of our library.
I'm going to go ahead and just choose one of these dark too and you can go ahead and check out the documentation
for word cloud.
In order to explore different color schemes Let's go ahead and see if this all worked out.
I'm going to go ahead and run the source.
But before I do I'm just going to expand the actual plot window we're going to be seeing this from.
Hopefully
you may get a prompt here asking you whether or not you want to use direct authentication that's going
to say 1 for yes 2 for no.
Go ahead and say one.
This may take a little bit of time depending on your interconnect internet connection and in your ability
to grab data from Twitter.
OK.
So here is our word cloud.
Unfortunately if we just look at this we can kind of tell that there's some words that it just show
up too often.
And there's word sources just played and it's probably because people are tons of people are tweeting
out just played soccer and there that's going to heavily weigh out these words.
And you also notice that there's a lot of h t t p s and that's because a lot of people are putting links
into their tweets which you'll probably have to remove.
Let's go ahead and try searching for another word and then we'll review everything and break it down
.
I'm going to go ahead and remove this color scheme because it wasn't too helpful in our case.
Let's go ahead and in the Stop words put in t p s that way that goes in that vector.
We'll just put h t t p and then we'll also search for another term instead of soccer.
Let's go with something like Python
which is another programming language.
Let's go ahead and see if we get more results about snakes or more results about the programming language
.
I want to go ahead and run source again.
And there we have our word cloud.
Now something we forgot to do is actually change the stop where it's remove python instead of soccer
.
You can go ahead and add that in and try calling this one more time.
And then we get a result which is actually a little surprising.
We get Monty Python as one of the top results and then we get programming the animal game Java other
languages javascript's eggs etc..
I encourage you to go ahead and play around with this maybe search for new terms or add in your arguments
and search Twitter.
Check out the free languages etc..
Right now we're going to take a step back and look at everything we just did because we used a lot of
really specialized functions in this and I want to go have a brief overview of what they were each actually
doing.
You don't need to understand all these functions completely but you should be able to understand them
enough that you can reference the documentation for all of them.
Let's start off at the very top and work our way back down.
We're going to shrink the council that the very first thing we did was call all the libraries.
Then we connected to Twitter using our He's in our tokens and our secret keys are secret tokens then
we use the search Twitter function to search for soccer or Python later on.
You can see that the number of tweets you want to return back to languages.
Now I encourage you to actually search the documentation or search Twitter and play around with the
different parameters you can pasan.
Then we grabbed the text data from the tweets.
Basically these Socred tweets have an object in them that you can grab called Get text that returns
a text from that tweet data.
Then we went ahead and cleaned the data to only grab UTF 8 encoded characters.
Then we went ahead and used corpus and vector source from the T.M. library to create a corpus of all
those text documents.
And then in this kind of really important step we did the document turned matrix and this basically
took advantage of T.M. library in order to perform a bunch of transformations on the text.
We removed the punctuation we removed the stop words we removed the numbers from them and then we lowercase
all the words.
Then we just converted that object to a matrix then we got the word counts by adding up the counts in
that term document matrix and then we created a data frame which basically has the word in how many
times it showed up the frequency.
And with that information you can quickly and easily create a word cloud.
We try to color it but sometimes it doesn't look too nice so you can just go ahead and skip the coloring
scheme.
All right I hope you found that fun and interesting.
Obviously this is something you can go ahead and put in a bunch of search terms play around this sort
of search Twitter function a lot and see what else you can come up with.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture